These object outlines are generated using Aladin Sky Atlas from the Centre de Données astronomiques de Strasbourg and a small Python script which make use of shapely module to reduce the points.

We start by using the "draw" function in Aladin Desktop to draw the contour of an object. We create three outlines at different brightness settings using the default DSS2 Color layer and playing with image histogram to get the shape at different brightnesses. Usually, the settings of the histogram are:

- level 1: zero output at zero luminance and full output at half luminance
- level 2: standard levels (zero output at zero luminance and full output at full luminance)
- level 3: zero output at half luminance and full output at full luminance

Then we export the plane in a subdirectory named 'objects' with an appropriate name in the form '[IC/NGC][dddd]{_lvX}.txt'. The object name is sometimes only indicative since the same shape file can include other objects which are not clearly detached from the starting object.

Those object files have a lot of points due to the high pecision of the coordinates being saved, but we really don't need that amount of information, so we use the 'shape.py' script to simplify the shape of the object.
Inside the script there's the 'shape_precision' variable, which by default is set to 0.002. Lowering that value will produce higher precision outlines, but with an increase of the size of the ouptut catalog.

Currently the 'shape.py' script supports creating catalog files for Skychart's Catgen and Stellarium. It can also create surface outlines for Catgen.

`python shape.py create-outlines --software catgen`
creates outlines for all files in the `./objects/` directory (objects with three level shapes will be displayed with three outlines).

`python shape.py create-outlines --software catgen --level 3`
creates outlines for only files with name ending in `lv3` and files without any level specified.

`python shape.py create-surfaces --software catgen`
create outlines in surface mode; the brightness level will be specified in the catalog file.

Aknowledgements
This research has made use of "Aladin sky atlas" developed at CDS, Strasbourg Observatory, France
